Investor demand has bid up the prices of many alternative income vehicles, reducing their ability to offset lower yields elsewhere. As a result, many income investors have to look elsewhere for higher yielding, uncorrelated investments.

Aircraft leasing is one such area which we believe to be attractive. This is an example of economic infrastructure, and involves buying new aircraft and then leasing them out to airlines. Purchases are funded by a mix of debt and equity, with shareholders receiving some of the lease payments as dividends and the rest either through servicing debt or taken as fees. Generally, the airline is responsible for maintaining the plane, although this is not always the case. At the end of the lease, the aircraft can be sold, potentially generating some capital growth for investors.

In our multi asset income funds, we access aircraft leasing through vehicles managed by two managers, Doric Nimrod and Amedeo. Doric Nimrod typically leases out A380s to Emirates Airlines and expects to distribute an annualised yield of around 8.25% on a quarterly basis. As investors, we therefore benefit from a stable series of asset-backed cash flows, secured over a long term lease term of twelve years.

Given that we are involved in asset leasing, there are clearly counterparty risks involved. We are happy to take these, however, with Emirates Airlines being a quasi-government body owned by the Investment Corporation of Dubai. Some of our other vehicles lease aircraft to Etihad, which helps to diversify our risk exposure. We also keep our overall exposure limited to a relatively small level across our income funds. So even if we saw the early termination of a lease (unlikely in our view) this would not have a materially negative impact for investors.

What happens at the end of the 12 year lease is an additional important consideration, particularly around how much the planes can be sold for. Changes in residual value won’t be immediately pertinent to our income levels, but they do impact capital returns. Conservative estimates for residual plane values help to give us a large margin of safety, however, and we are also mindful of the price at which we add to our exposure. Again, a restrained approach helps to mitigate risks for investors.

Economic infrastructure is not a complete solution to today’s low yield environment. But combined with social infrastructure vehicles and other alternatives, it can make an important contribution to our income generation, and one which is relatively immune to changes in monetary policy. Due diligence and ongoing monitoring are an important part of assessing the risks of aircraft leasing, but having been invested for three years now, we are confident that we know these strategies and management well. As we continue to look for other economic infrastructure opportunities, our existing exposure offers us strong bedrock on which to build.